Inital draft of hub documentation with examples (#166)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/hub/pages/manual-mode.adoc

[[manual-mode-example]]
= Manual mode

> In this example, manual mode is used, where user needs to provide credentials for each {productname} server user wants to connect to.

Reviewer: I would reword it as something like:

In the `Manual mode`  the user needs to provide credentials for each {productname} server the user wants to connect to.

Here in this example, following is happening

[square]

> * User provide credentials for the hub to the login method, a `sessionkey` for the hub is returned

Reviewer: provides

> * Using the sessionkey from the previous step, `serverIds` for the servers attached to the hub are requested

Reviewer: I would add "by calling 'listServerIds' or somehting like that

> * User provide the credentials for each {productname} server, she needs data from and calls the hub method `attachToServers`. Authentication part is done here.

Reviewer: provides

> * `multicast` call is being performed on the specific servers where `serverId` is used to identify the specific sever. Behind the scenes, `system.list_system method` of each {productname} server's xmlrpc api method will be called to get the list of the clients registed with each {productname} server

Reviewer: I think the method is called 'system.listSystem'

> * `multicast` call is being performed on the specific servers where `serverId` is used to identify the specific sever. Behind the scenes, `system.list_system method` of each {productname} server's xmlrpc api method will be called to get the list of the clients registed with each {productname} server

Reviewer: a `multicast` call is performed on the specified servers.

> * `multicast` call is being performed on the specific servers where `serverId` is used to identify the specific sever. Behind the scenes, `system.list_system method` of each {productname} server's xmlrpc api method will be called to get the list of the clients registed with each {productname} server

Reviewer: some times 'xmlrpc api' is lower case and some others not. I think we should use the same way everywhere

> * `multicast` call is being performed on the specific servers where `serverId` is used to identify the specific sever. Behind the scenes, `system.list_system method` of each {productname} server's xmlrpc api method will be called to get the list of the clients registed with each {productname} server

Reviewer: typo in registered.

> * Hub will take care of collecting these results and return in form of a `map`. This map has two entries, entry with `Successfull`  key, has list of responses where call was successful while with `Failed` key  has the failed ones.

Reviewer: I would reword it to use 'aggregating' instead of 'collecting'.

The Hub will aggregate the results and return a response in form of a `map`, which has two entries:
`Successful`: contains a list of responses for those clients where the call was successful.
`Failed`: contains a list of responses  for those clients where the call failed.

[NOTE]
====

> If user wish to get information from only one {productname} server, then Hub also provided a convenient `unicast` namespace. In this case, result would not be returned as map rather exactly as the result are expectd as if user directly call that {productname} server's api.

Reviewer: If the user wish to get information from only one {productname} server, the Hub API also provides a convenient `unicast` namespace. In this case, the response would not be a `map`, instead the response format would be exactly the same as if the user would directly call that {productname} server's API.

[[manual-mode-example]]
= Manual mode

> In the Manual mode the user needs to provide credentials for each {productname} server the user wants to connect to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In manual mode credentials have to be explicitly provided for each {productname} server the user wants to connect to.
```

> Here in this example, following is happening

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example:
```

[square]

> * User provides credentials for the hub to the login method, a `sessionkey` for the hub is returned

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* credentials for the Hub are passed to the `login` method, a session key for the Hub API is returned (`hubKey`)
```

> * Using the sessionkey from the previous step, `serverIds` for the servers attached to the hub are requested by calling `listServerIds` method

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Using the session key from the previous step, {productname} Server IDs are obtained for all peripheral Servers attached to the Hub via the `hub.listServerIds` method
```

> * User provides the credentials for each {productname} server, she needs data from and calls the hub method `attachToServers`. Authentication part is done here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Credentials for each {productname} Server are now provided to the `attachToServers` method. This performs authentications against each of the Servers' XMLRPC API endpoints.
```

> * A `multicast` call is performed on the specific servers where `serverId` is used to identify the specific sever. Behind the scenes, `system.list_system method` of each {productname} server's XMLRPC API method will be called to get the list of the clients registered with each {productname} server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A `multicast` call is performed on a set of Servers (`serverIds` contains all IDs of Servers to target). Behind the scenes, `system.list_system` is called on each {productname} Server's XMLRPC API
```

* Hub will aggregate the results and return the response in form of a `map`. This map has two entries:
- `Successful`: contains a list of responses for those clients where the call was successful.
- `Failed`: contains a list of responses for those clients where the call failed.

[NOTE]
====

> If user wish to get information from only one {productname} server, then Hub API also provided a convenient `unicast` namespace. In this case, the response would not be a map, instead the response format would be exactly the same as if the user would directly call that {productname} server's API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to call a method on just one {productname} Server, then Hub API also provides a more convenient `unicast` namespace. In this case, the response will be a single value and not a map, just as if the user called that {productname} server's API directly.
```

====

* User logs out

[source,python]
----
#!/usr/bin/python
import xmlrpclib
import itertools

HUB_URL = "http://localhost:8888/hub/rpc/api"
HUB_LOGIN = "admin"
HUB_PASSWORD = "admin"

client = xmlrpclib.Server(HUB_URL, verbose=0)

hubKey = client.hub.login(HUB_LOGIN, HUB_PASSWORD)

#Get the server Ids
serverIds = client.hub.listServerIds(hubKey)

# authenticate those servers(each server with it's own credentials)
usernames = ["admin" for s in serverIds]
passwords = ["admin" for s in serverIds]
client.hub.attachToServers(hubKey, serverIds, usernames, passwords)

# perform the needed operation
systemsPerServer = client.multicast.system.list_systems(hubKey, serverIds)

> successfulResponses = systemsPerServer["Successfull"]["Responses"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
successfulResponses = systemsPerServer["Successful"]["Responses"]
```

Apparently the field is spelled correctly in `hub-xmlrpc-api`'s source code.

I would recommend to double check all examples, as they could confuse first-time users if they do not work as expected.

failedResponses = systemsPerServer["Failed"]["Responses"]

> for system in itertools.chain.from_iterable(successfulResponses):

Reviewer 2: Is the use of `itertools.chain.from_iterable` really necessary here?

I am most likely missing something - what would make `for response in successfulResponses` not work here?
